In the last video i showed you how to build more
complex shapes with the vertex function. In this
video i will show you how to go beyond that and
build more complex polygons with curves instead of
straight lines. We have three different functions
to do this and they're getting more complex and
with the growing complexity you will gain more
control about how these curves are actually being
generated. The most simple one is the so-called
curveVertex function. For this we simply need to
replace the vertex functions with the curveVertex
function and now the tool is trying to build a
smooth curve through all the vertices that we
provide as individual points. But we don't have
a lot of control about how these curves are being
exactly generated. If you want more control, there
is another function called the quadraticVertex to
show this one i will reduce it to just one line
and go a little bit more into detail here. For
this one we start with a starting point the
vertex this will be the point where our line curve
should start and then we have the quadraticVertex
for the quadraticVertex this is now a little
bit different to the first two vertex functions,
because this one takes two x and two y
coordinates. The first two coordinates
are an additional control point. This is similar
to things you know from graphic editing software
like illustrator, figma or sketch. When
you edit any kind of path, vector path
there you get these small little control points,
these little handles, that you can use to edit
how the curves are being generated. And this is
the same here. I will provide an additional point,
i will set it in the middle of
the line and move it 50 pixels up.
And now we get this this nice curve. And this
is also something that i do. When you're working
with these more complex curves, it can get
really complicated, to keep in mind what were
my control points what is the target what is the
starting point. What you can easily do, is simply
visualize this and visualize it in a way that you
already know from your graphics editing software.
Let's start by adding a few points
here. I will change the color to red
of our stroke and make the strokeWeight a
little bit bigger and now add a couple of points
first our starting and our target
point so we have the starting point
and the target point
save this so we have little red dots
at the beginning and end so then we have our
control point and this one should be blue
and this is positioned at 50.
and to make it make it even more
clear we can add some lines here
and we will simply connect the
starting point with our control point
and the destination point with our control point
and now it's visible. Let's change
the stroke weight for our lines.
Now it looks exactly like it looks
in some graphic editing software.
And i will now introduce a little feature
that we actually learn in the next chapter,
when it comes to the input and we could also
make this of course a variable. Let's change
our control point to x and we will use the
mouseX so the current x position of our mouse
and for y we use the mouseY and simply
replace this here and here and here.
so now you can even better understand how
the curve is being generated. Similar to
other software you can see how the curve is being
generated by the control point that we provide.
And with the last function we can go even
a step further by not using one control
point but two control points. In this case the
function is called a bezierVertex and now we add
an additional point. And i will simply add it in
the middle and so now we have one control point
for the beginning of the curve and another
control point for the end of the curve.
I will also add a point to
our second control point.
Now you can see how the first one is now
sticky it will stay in the same location
because only the first one is controlled
by the mouse but you can nicely see
how the curve is being generated and how much
control we now have about this curve. You
can use these curve functions to do a lot of
wild things and create interesting new shapes
through these different vertex functions
and you can combine them. you don't need
to use only bezier. You can combine the
different curve functions with one another
and just experiment this way by creating new
interesting shapes in your generative layouts